1) List vs Set.

1.List is index based.
2.List allows duplicate values.
3.It prints in insertion order.
4.More than 1 null value can be given.
5.Array list,Linked list and Vector are the implementations of List.

1.Set is value based.
2.Set does not allows duplicate values.
3.It prints in random order.
4.Only once null value can be given.
5.Hash set,linked hash set and tree set are the implementations of Set.

2) List vs Map

1.List is index based.
2.List allows duplicate values.
3.It prints in insertion order.
4.More than 1 null value can be given.
5.Array list,Linked list and Vector are the implementations of List.

1.Map is key and value pair and it is Key based.
2.In map,Key does not allow duplicates and value allows duplicates.
3.It prints in random order.
4.Map allows 1 null key and multiple null values.
5.Hash map,Linked hash map and tree map are the implementations of Map.

3) Set vs Map

1.Set is value based.
2.Set cannot have duplicate values.
3.Set can be iterated with keyset() and entryset() methods.
4.It prints in random order.

1.Map is key based.
2.Map has unique key and can have same value for different keys.
3.Map cannot be iterated,it should be converted into set to iterate the values.
4.It prints in random order.

4) List vs Linked list

1.In list,values are stored sequentially in memory.
2.Values are stored one after the other.
2.values can be accessed faster in list.
3.Insertion and deletion of values are slower.

1.Linked list values are not stored sequentially.
2.Each value holds the address of the next value.
3.Accessing values in linked list is slower.
4.Insertion and deletion of values is faster.

5) Hashmap vs HashSet

1.Hashmap is the implementation of Map.
2.It stores the elements in key value pair.
3.Put method is used to add elements.
4.It retrieves the element faster.
5.It allows 1 null key and multiple null values.

1.HashSet is the implementation of Set.
2.It stores the elements in objects.
3.add method is used to add elements.
4.It retrieves the element slower compared to hashmap.
5.It allows only 1 null value.

6) Treemap vs Treeset

1.Treemap is the implementation of Map.
2.It stores the elements in key value pair.
3.The keys are sorted in treemap.
4.It allows duplicate values.

1.Treeset is the implementation of Set.
2.It stores the elements in objects.
3.The objects are sorted in treeset.
4.It does not allow duplicate values.

7) Hashmap vs Hashtable

1.Hashmap is non-synchronized.
2.It is not thread safe.
3.It allows 1 null key and multiple null values.
4.It is faster.
5.It can be traversed by iterator.

1.Hashtable is syncronized.
2.It is thread safe.
3.It does not allow any null key or value.
4.It is slower.
5.It can be traversed by iterator and enumerator.

8) Map vs Hashmap

1.Map is an interface.
2.It has unique key-value pair.
3.It does not allow null values.
4.Hash map,Linked hash map and tree map are the implementations of Map.

1.Hashmap is a class.
2.It can have duplicate values.
3.It allows 1 null value.
4.Hashmap implements Map interface 


9) Array vs Arraylist

1.Array is both single and multidimensional.
2.For and Foreach is used to iterate in Array.
3.length keyword is used to get the size Array.
4.It is static with fixed length.
5.It is faster since it is static.
6.= operator is used to store elements.

1.Arraylist is single dimensional.
2.Iterator is used to iterate Arraylist.
3.Size() method is used to get the size of Arraylist.
4.It is dynamic and can be changed when needed.
5.It is slower since it is dynamic.
6.add() method is used to store elements.

10) Arraylist vs Linkedlist

1.In Arraylist, insertion and deletion is difficult.
2.Searching and retrieving is easier.
3.It is asynchronized.
4.It is not thread safe but faster.

1.In Linkedlist, insertion and deletion is easier.
2.Searching and retrieving is difficult.
3.It is synchronized.
4.It is thread safe but slower.

